docs/cheatsheet.md, before:

# Helium cheatsheet

This page very quickly teaches you the most important parts of Helium's API.

## Importing

All of Helium's public functions lie directly in the module `helium`.
You can for instance import them as follows:

```python
from helium import *
```

## Starting a browser

Helium currently supports Chrome and Firefox. You can start them with the
following functions:

```python
start_chrome()
start_firefox()
```

You can optionally pass a URL to open (eg. `start_chrome('google.com')`)

## Headless browser

When you type the above commands, you will actually see a browser window open.
This is useful for developing your scripts. However, once you run them, you may
not want this window to appear. You can achieve this by adding `headless=True`:

```python
start_chrome(headless=True)
start_chrome('google.com', headless=True)
```

(Similarly for `start_firefox(...)` of course.)

## Interacting with a web site

The following example shows the most typical statements in a Helium script:

```python
from helium import *
start_chrome('google.com')
write('helium selenium github')
press(ENTER)
click('mherrmann/helium')
go_to('github.com/login')
write('username', into='Username')
write('password', into='Password')
click('Sign in')
kill_browser()
```

Most of your own code will (hopefully) be as simple as the above.

## Element types

The above example used pure strings such as `Sign in` to identify elements on
the web page. But Helium also lets you target elements more specifically.
For instance:

 * [`Link('Sign in')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L643)
 * [`Button('Sign in')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L706)
 * [`TextField('First name')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L768)
 * [`CheckBox('I accept')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L867)
 * [`RadioButton('Windows')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L907)
 * [`Image(alt='Helium logo')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L739)

You can pass them into other functions such as `click(Link('Sign in'))`.
But you can also use them to _read_ data from the web site. For instance:

```python
print(TextField('First name').value)
```

A common use case is to use `.exists()` to check for the existence of an
element. For example:

```python
if Text('Accept cookies?').exists():
    click('I accept')
```

I also often find `Text(...).value` useful for reading out data:

```python
name = Text(to_right_of='Name:', below=Image(alt='Profile picture')).value
```

For a full list of element types and their properties, please see
[the source code](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L470-L1008).

## Finding elements relative to others

You already saw in the previous section how `above=...` and `to_right_of=...`
let you find elements relative to other elements. You can similarly use
`below=...` and `to_left_of`. Here are some more examples.

```python
Text(above='Balance', below='Transactions').value
Link(to_right_of='Invoice:')
Image(to_right_of=Link('Sign in', below=Text('Navigation')))
```

## Waiting for elements to appear (or other conditions)

Use
[`wait_until(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L410)
to wait for a condition to become true. For example:

```python
wait_until(Button('Download').exists)
```

But you can also use this to wait for an arbitrary condition:

```python
wait_until(lambda: TextField('Balance').value == '$2M')
```

## jQuery-style selectors

Sometimes, you do need to fall back to using HTML IDs, CSS Selectors or XPaths
to identify an element on the web page. Helium's
[`S(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L568)
predicate lets you do this. The parameter you pass to it is interpreted as
follows:

* If it starts with an ``@``, then it identifies elements by HTML ``name``.
  Eg. ``S("@btnName")`` identifies an element with ``name="btnName"``.
* If it starts with ``//``, then Helium interprets it as an XPath.
* Otherwise, Helium interprets it as a CSS selector. This in particular
  lets you write ``S("#myId")`` to identify an element with ``id="myId"``,
  or ``S(".myClass")`` to identify elements with ``class="myClass"``.

As before, you can combine `S(...)` with other functions such as
`click(S(...))`, or use it to extract data. For an example of this, see
[below](#finding-all-elements).

## Combining Helium and Selenium's APIs

All Helium does is translate your high-level commands into low-level Selenium
function calls. Because of this, you can freely mix Selenium and Helium. For
example:

```python
# A Helium function:
driver = start_chrome()
# A Selenium API:
driver.execute_script("alert('Hi!');")
```

You can also get / set the Selenium WebDriver which Helium uses via
[`get_driver()`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L104)
and
[`set_driver(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L97).

With the WebDriver instance, you can execute any Selenium commands you want.

To use Helium's API's to obtain Selenium `WebElement`s, use the `.web_element`
property of Helium's various GUI elements. For instance:

```python
# Get the CSS class of the "Helium" link:
Link('Helium').web_element.get_attribute('class')
```

Here, `.get_attribute(...)` is a Selenium API.


## Finding all elements

The `.web_element` property and the `S(...)` predicate are particularly useful
for extracting multiple pieces of data from a web page. To do this, you can use
Helium's [`find_all(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L281) function.
As its name implies, it lets you find all occurrences of an element on a page.
For example:

```python
email_cells = find_all(S("table > tr > td", below="Email"))
emails = [cell.web_element.text for cell in email_cells]
```

## Implicit waits

When you issue a command such as `click('Download')`, Helium by default waits
up to 10 seconds for the respective element to appear. This feature is called
"implicit waiting". You can change the 10 second default to a different value
via the
[`Config` class](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L437):

```python
Config.implicit_wait_secs = 30
```

However, before you do this, it may be better to add explicit waits to your
code, such as `wait_until(Button('Download').exists)`.

## Alerts

The
[`Alert` class](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L970)
lets you interface with JavaScript popup boxes. Use `Alert().accept()`,
`Alert().dismiss()` to click "Ok" or "Cancel", `Alert().text` to read the
message shown, or `write(..., into=Alert())` to enter a value.

## File uploads, drag and drop, combo boxes, popups

Use
[`attach_file(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L388),
[`drag_file(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L375),
[`drag(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L252),
[`select(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L362),
[`switch_to(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L1057).

## Clicking at x, y coordinates

Sometimes, you may want to click at a specific `(x, y)` coordinate, or at an
offset of an element. See the
[`Point` class](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L1010)
for how.

## Taking a screenshot

Use Selenium's API:

```python
get_driver().save_screenshot(r'C:\screenshot.png')
```

Note the leading `r`. This is required because the string contains a backslash
`\`.

Commit message:

Update cheatsheet.md (#130)
Added instructions for using the Point class to click at specific coordinates or offsets.

docs/cheatsheet.md, after:

# Helium cheatsheet

This page very quickly teaches you the most important parts of Helium's API.

## Importing

All of Helium's public functions lie directly in the module `helium`.
You can for instance import them as follows:

```python
from helium import *
```

## Starting a browser

Helium currently supports Chrome and Firefox. You can start them with the
following functions:

```python
start_chrome()
start_firefox()
```

You can optionally pass a URL to open (eg. `start_chrome('google.com')`)

## Headless browser

When you type the above commands, you will actually see a browser window open.
This is useful for developing your scripts. However, once you run them, you may
not want this window to appear. You can achieve this by adding `headless=True`:

```python
start_chrome(headless=True)
start_chrome('google.com', headless=True)
```

(Similarly for `start_firefox(...)` of course.)

## Interacting with a web site

The following example shows the most typical statements in a Helium script:

```python
from helium import *
start_chrome('google.com')
write('helium selenium github')
press(ENTER)
click('mherrmann/helium')
go_to('github.com/login')
write('username', into='Username')
write('password', into='Password')
click('Sign in')
kill_browser()
```

Most of your own code will (hopefully) be as simple as the above.

## Element types

The above example used pure strings such as `Sign in` to identify elements on
the web page. But Helium also lets you target elements more specifically.
For instance:

 * [`Link('Sign in')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L643)
 * [`Button('Sign in')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L706)
 * [`TextField('First name')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L768)
 * [`CheckBox('I accept')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L867)
 * [`RadioButton('Windows')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L907)
 * [`Image(alt='Helium logo')`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L739)

You can pass them into other functions such as `click(Link('Sign in'))`.
But you can also use them to _read_ data from the web site. For instance:

```python
print(TextField('First name').value)
```

A common use case is to use `.exists()` to check for the existence of an
element. For example:

```python
if Text('Accept cookies?').exists():
    click('I accept')
```

I also often find `Text(...).value` useful for reading out data:

```python
name = Text(to_right_of='Name:', below=Image(alt='Profile picture')).value
```

For a full list of element types and their properties, please see
[the source code](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L470-L1008).

## Finding elements relative to others

You already saw in the previous section how `above=...` and `to_right_of=...`
let you find elements relative to other elements. You can similarly use
`below=...` and `to_left_of`. Here are some more examples.

```python
Text(above='Balance', below='Transactions').value
Link(to_right_of='Invoice:')
Image(to_right_of=Link('Sign in', below=Text('Navigation')))
```

## Waiting for elements to appear (or other conditions)

Use
[`wait_until(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L410)
to wait for a condition to become true. For example:

```python
wait_until(Button('Download').exists)
```

But you can also use this to wait for an arbitrary condition:

```python
wait_until(lambda: TextField('Balance').value == '$2M')
```

## jQuery-style selectors

Sometimes, you do need to fall back to using HTML IDs, CSS Selectors or XPaths
to identify an element on the web page. Helium's
[`S(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L568)
predicate lets you do this. The parameter you pass to it is interpreted as
follows:

* If it starts with an ``@``, then it identifies elements by HTML ``name``.
  Eg. ``S("@btnName")`` identifies an element with ``name="btnName"``.
* If it starts with ``//``, then Helium interprets it as an XPath.
* Otherwise, Helium interprets it as a CSS selector. This in particular
  lets you write ``S("#myId")`` to identify an element with ``id="myId"``,
  or ``S(".myClass")`` to identify elements with ``class="myClass"``.

As before, you can combine `S(...)` with other functions such as
`click(S(...))`, or use it to extract data. For an example of this, see
[below](#finding-all-elements).

## Combining Helium and Selenium's APIs

All Helium does is translate your high-level commands into low-level Selenium
function calls. Because of this, you can freely mix Selenium and Helium. For
example:

```python
# A Helium function:
driver = start_chrome()
# A Selenium API:
driver.execute_script("alert('Hi!');")
```

You can also get / set the Selenium WebDriver which Helium uses via
[`get_driver()`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L104)
and
[`set_driver(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L97).

With the WebDriver instance, you can execute any Selenium commands you want.

To use Helium's API's to obtain Selenium `WebElement`s, use the `.web_element`
property of Helium's various GUI elements. For instance:

```python
# Get the CSS class of the "Helium" link:
Link('Helium').web_element.get_attribute('class')
```

Here, `.get_attribute(...)` is a Selenium API.


## Finding all elements

The `.web_element` property and the `S(...)` predicate are particularly useful
for extracting multiple pieces of data from a web page. To do this, you can use
Helium's [`find_all(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L281) function.
As its name implies, it lets you find all occurrences of an element on a page.
For example:

```python
email_cells = find_all(S("table > tr > td", below="Email"))
emails = [cell.web_element.text for cell in email_cells]
```

## Implicit waits

When you issue a command such as `click('Download')`, Helium by default waits
up to 10 seconds for the respective element to appear. This feature is called
"implicit waiting". You can change the 10 second default to a different value
via the
[`Config` class](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L437):

```python
Config.implicit_wait_secs = 30
```

However, before you do this, it may be better to add explicit waits to your
code, such as `wait_until(Button('Download').exists)`.

## Alerts

The
[`Alert` class](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L970)
lets you interface with JavaScript popup boxes. Use `Alert().accept()`,
`Alert().dismiss()` to click "Ok" or "Cancel", `Alert().text` to read the
message shown, or `write(..., into=Alert())` to enter a value.

## File uploads, drag and drop, combo boxes, popups

Use
[`attach_file(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L388),
[`drag_file(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L375),
[`drag(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L252),
[`select(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L362),
[`switch_to(...)`](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L1057).

## Clicking at x, y coordinates

Sometimes, you may want to click at a specific `(x, y)` coordinate, or at an
offset of an element. 

### Create a `Point` to specify the coordinates and use it to click:

```python
from helium import click
point = Point(x=100, y=200)
click(point)  # Clicks at (100, 200)
```

### Adjusting a Point by a offset
You can modify a point's position using addition or subtraction by a delta:

```python
delta = (20, -10)
click(Point(100, 200) + delta)  # Clicks at (120, 190)
```

See the
[`Point` class](https://github.com/mherrmann/helium/blob/0667ddb9be531367a0d707ad8f5fcfb75c528521/helium/__init__.py#L1010)
for more.

## Taking a screenshot

Use Selenium's API:

```python
get_driver().save_screenshot(r'C:\screenshot.png')
```

Note the leading `r`. This is required because the string contains a backslash
`\`.
